For a lot of machine learning problems,
training sets and
death and test set distribution
start at being reasonably similar.
But, if you're using data augmentation,
you're adding to specific
parts of the training set such as
adding lots of data with cafe noise.
So now you're training set may come
from a very different distribution than
the death set and the test set.
Is this going to hurt your
learning album's performance?
Usually the answer is no with some caveats
when you're working on unstructured
data problems.
But let's take a deeper look
at what that really means.
If you are working on
an unstructured data problem and
if your model is large, such as a neural
network that is quite large and
has a large capacity and does low bias.
And if the mapping from x to y is clear
and by that I mean given only the input x,
humans can make accurate predictions.
Then it turns out adding accurately
labeled data rarely hurts accuracy.
This is an important observation
because adding data through data
augmentation or
collecting more of one type of data,
can really change your input dated
distribution to probability of x.
Let's say at the start of your problem,
20% of your data had cafe noise.
But using augmentation,
you added a lot of cafe noise.
So now this is 50 of your data is
data of cafe noise in the background.
It turns out that so
long as your model is sufficiently large,
then it won't stop it from doing
a good job on the cafe noise data as
well as doing a good job
on non cafe noise data.
In contrast, if your model was small, then
changing your input data distribution this
way may cause it to spend too much of its
resources modeling cafe noise settings.
And this could hurt this
performance on non cafe noise data.
But if your model is large enough,
then this isn't really an issue.
The second problem that could arise is
if the mapping from x to y is not clear,
meaning given x,
the true label of y is very ambiguous.
This doesn't really happen much
in speech recognition, but
let me illustrate this with
an example from computer vision.
This is very rare, so it's not
something I would worry about the most
practical problems, but
let's see why this is important.
One of the systems I had worked
on many years ago use Google
street view images to read
host numbers in order to more
accurately clear locate buildings and
houses in Google maps.
So one of the things that
system did was take us input
pictures like this and
figure out what is this digit.
So clearly this is a one and
this is a alphabet I.
You don't see a lot of I's in street view
images, but there are some building.
You may see a sign that says
navigate to house number 42 I,
but house numbers really rarely
have an alphabet I in it.
Now, if you find that your
algorithm has very high accuracy
on recognizing ones, but
low accuracy on recognizing Is,
one thing you might do is add a lot more
examples of Is in your training set.
And the problem, and
this is a rare problem is there
are some images that are truly ambiguous.
Is this a one or is this an I?
And if you were to add a lot of
new Is to your training set,
especially ambiguous examples like these,
then that may skew the data sets to
have a lot more Is and hurt performance.
Because we know that there are a lot
more ones than Is on house numbers.
If the Sees a picture like this,
it would be safer to guess that this
is a one rather than that this is an I.
But if data augmentation skews
the data set in the direction of
having a lot more Is
rather than a lot of ones,
that may cause the [INAUDIBLE] To guess
poorly on an ambiguous example like this.
So this is one rare example where adding
more data could hurt performance and
this example of one versus I is one that
contradicts the second bullet because for
some images the mapping
from x to y is not clear.
In particular given only
an image like this on the right,
even a human can't really
tell what this is.
Just to be clear, the example that we just
went through together is a pretty rare
almost corner case and it's quite
unusual for data augmentation or
adding more data to hurt the performance
of your learning algorithm.
So long as your model is big enough,
maybe a neural network is big enough to
learn from diverse set of data sources.
But I hope that understanding this rare
case where it could hypothetically hurt
gives you more comfort with using data
augmentation or collecting more data to
improve the performance of your algorithm,
even if it causes your training set
distribution to become different from
your death set and test set distribution.
So far, our discussion has focused
on unstructured data problems.
How about structured data problems?
It turns out there's a different
set of techniques that's useful for
structured data.
Let's take a look at
that in the next video.